Egypt's foreign minister Sami shukri
says the Israeli government has not made
a decision on opening the Rafa border
crossing between Gaza and Egypt this
comes after earlier reports that the
crossing was set to open on Monday
hundreds of Palestinians with foreign
passports have been waiting at the
border to leave Gaza and aid for The
Enclave from several countries has been
held up uh in Egypt's Sinai Peninsula
for days now let's get an update first
on the situation inside Gaza with Al
jazer yumna Al who's in southern Gaza in
Kan Yunis you're side of the main
hospital in Kan Yunis yumna describe to
us first the situation there what's been
happening yes fly here at at Naser
Hospital the largest hospital in Gaza in
kanun sorry uh has taken all the
patients from other medical centers in
hanun the southern govern in Gaza Strip
and they were all brought here because
of the lack of capabilities and
resources in those hospitals this
Hospital is now over full uh overwhelmed
and it's completely full over the
capacity of the hospital with all the
patients and the injuries that come
every now and then to this hospital yet
the bombardment is still ongoing
especially in Rafa andun areas where
homes of civilians are being targeted
and bombarded over their heads uh hours
ago we had uh we went dozens of
ambulances drop dozens of civilians
mostly children into this Hospital of
the last two targeting that were on a
residential home for two families both
in Kan yunes the humanitarian situation
across Gaza yumna has been described as
catastrophic we've heard the Israelis
say earlier this Monday that they've
restored water in some parts of Gaza but
Hamas has denied this can you tell tell
us what what the latest is on the water
situation is water available in southern
Gaza where you are for
example there is no water until now in
the entire Gaza Strip in southern Gaza
there's no water that has reached the
southern part of the strip until this
moment I have confirmed with uh unur uh
manager of communications Juliet Tuma
and she told me she confirmed to me that
until this moment there has been no
water reaching the strip in any place
also she said we need fuel to restore
some water into the strip in the
southern Parts where Israel is claiming
that it has opened the water for uh the
pipelines to run the water into the
South again for the residents of the
Gaza Strip so as long as there is no
fuel to generate for electricity to
generate the water that is running out
from these pipelines no water will be
able to reach the civilians Off the
Strip yum know what are you hearing
about what's happening at the Rafa
Crossing there was talk of the
possibility of that border crossing with
Egypt's reopening and I I know that
there have been hundreds of people with
dual nationality waiting at that border
crossing to get to Egypt and for Aid to
come into Gaza but do you know under
what conditions that Crossing is likely
to
open well we've heard a lot of new news
that uh the The rafah Crossing will be
open in the previous days and until now
but until this moment there are no
indications that it will be opening
because we've also uh been hearing uh uh
news and reports saying that uh Egypt is
not going to be allowing the opening of
raah crossing for dual nationalities or
foreign nationalities to leave the strip
unless Israel approves the opening of
raah for the entry of human Arian Aid
into the strip which until this moment
Israel does not approve on doing so uh
it seems that the talks have not yet got
to a point where the rafah Border will
be open for the nationalities to come
out until the humanitarian Aid enters
the strip yumna thank you very much for
the update Al jazer is yumna outside
reporting their live from can Yunis in
southern Gaza